$Id: agenda.txt,v 1.7 2013-06-18 09:31:38 brandenb Exp $

Topics for Pencil code User Meeting in Lund 2013:

% Notes: "-" means that this item is still open (nothing has happend)
%        "+" means that it is already in progress (people working on it)
%        "*" same, but high priority
%        "/" postponed
%        "x" means that it has been dealt with

New topics:

+ to discuss: Pencil Code papers
  to write several papers for special issue in AN
  to documented samples for web page

+  documented samples on the web
   this has two components 
   one is the web development part, the other is the choice of the samples and
   the discription.
   ML / BD / AB / ... 
   Particles AJ / WL / CCY (?)

+ to take out all unnecessary mpi barriers
  Sven to do
    
+ Perfect conductor boundary conditions
  Matthias, Joern, Axel to discuss in small group

x Axel to demonstrate pc_jobtransfer (done),
+ Boris to implement bash helper script.

x Should we make "luse_Bext_in_b2=F" the default?
  done (18-June)

/ Next Pencil code meeting: options include Trondheim (Nils),
  Goettingen (Sven), Stockholm (Axel)

* Is it time to rename the Makefile variable ENTROPY into, so we'd have e.g.,
  ENERGY=temperature_ionization, ENERGY=thermal_energy.f90 ,
  ENERGY=entropy, ENERGY=temperature_idealgas
  also: to extract part of this into CONDUCTIVITY=conductivity
    temperature users would still use CONDUCTIVITY=conductivity,
    but the temperature module would not call any routines from there
    at first instance.
    (Boris, Wlad, Anders, Sven, Chao-Chin)
  and also: perhaps to move mpoly etc to gravity.

+ Message module : (use of MPI ABORT)
  JH / PB

+ Bug in the shearing boundary conditions

+ Improved Ascii plotting tool
  DC

+ The compiler issue : Flags to C compiler (includin _s)

+ Visualisation
  YT Jeff's talk , Paraview also possible
  Fortran to C interface  TOP-PRIORITY  
 
+ FORTRAN 2003 discussion 
 Skype session with Wolfgang (?)
 Fortran03 module check up
     syscals.f90 IO module Phillipe
     PB / JH / MR

+ In the Manual \htmladdnormallink looks like normal txt 

+ 6-page manual (Illa & Michiel still working)

+ diagnostics (Matthias, Axel, Wolfgang)

/ anelastic module (Boris, Axel, Matthias): workshop in Stockholm

+ Boussinesq model is currently always non-dimensional -> make dimensional
  Matthias and Boris to do (18 June 2013).

+ GUI (inspection)

/ CUDA (mn-loop)

/ Compound data
  Matthias gradually remembers what it was.

/ Simultaneous grid (Nils)
  Could mean two things: embedded mesh or Yin-Yang grid

/ Non-equidistant mesh (Joern and Matthias): no progress

/ Testfield  (spherical)

/ common data module (for EOS, density, density)

/ diagnosing statistics: why increase > 2009.5 - 2011.0
  Axel to check by 18-June 2013

- to add to the manual instructions to enter info under people
  Michiel to add (18-Jun-2013)

- manual additions:
    vector visualization (Philippe)
    queing system ()

- polar boundary conditions (status report: Dhruba not looked at for long time)
  -> Petri to say what does not work
  Status?

- still questions regarding the particle module, especially about
  collisions. More documentation seems to be desired.
  Status?
    
- need for a table to identify who entered whom as project member
  ? or does this already exist under google wiki?/AB
  to continue!
  Status?

- should we make cdt=0.9 the default?/AB
  * Done, but may need some documentation
  Status?

- Should participation in mailing lists be mandatory?
  * Who is *not* on the list
  * Check who should be in the list, and send an email obliging them
    to be on the list. 
  * Remove spurious spammers that seem to have made to the list
  Status?

- List in the webpage all papers that were published using Pencil. 
  *php script
  Status?

- Quarterly Pencil Code progress meeting (Skype)
  Good for introducing new members, talking about plans, possibility
  for new developers to discuss their ideas with more experienced
  developers, ...
  * Try monthly, schedule in advance, say, last Tuesday of the month, 
    and let people organize themselves around it. 

       1:00 AM - California 
       4:00 PM - New York
      10:00 PM - Central Europe
      11:00 PM - Finland        

    Next meeting, 31 July, 10 pm, Tuesday.
  Status?

    * Have a doodle, lime survey, or whatever online voting stuff
      in the pencil code page for voting
    Status?

    + status and checks of the anelastic module
    Status?

  - Conservativeness.
    Need to check with Anders about status of WENO transport scheme
    (Not working yet in multiple-dimension, move to special module, 
    Given to Anders) 
    * Ask Anders if that is still an issue. 
      WENO works, shock tube tests. Still needs shock viscosity. 
      If someone wants to work with WENO, they can. 
    Status?

  - cleaning up *.h files and check for breaks in modularity
    (Given to Axel)
    * They can be cleaned, for instance lnrho_bot, lnrho_top
    ss_bot, ss_top are only defined in gravity, then shared. They 
    shouldn't be in gravity. Also, qgshear, n_pot and r0_pot are 
    shared but used in gravity only. Think of an automated way 
    to capture all these. Check also politropic indices, in eos.h
    Status?
      
  - advec_hyper3mesh_rho=diffrho_hyper3_mesh*pi5_1*dx_1(l1:l2) issue
    (cf. Wlad's email of 18 July 2011?)
    (Axel to work on this, nor done yet)
    Status?

  - automated diagnostic
    (Axel: more important may now be to encapsulate 90% of the diagnostics
    to a module called magnetic/diagnostics_advanced.f90)
    * too many lines in the physics modules devoted to diagnostics! it may be
    possible to move them somewhere else?
    Status?

  - some other point from Alex: to set diagnostics output in wall-clock times
    * idea: to have an output every, say, 10mn
    --> code idiag_something related to the it value (see L419 in run.f90)
    Status?

  - check who is on which google email list
    http://groups.google.com/group/pencil-code-discuss/members
    * we already discussed about that
    Status?

  - change the frequency of xyaverages through a new d1davg
    and allow the time units to be changed to wall-clock hours.
    (Axel to work on)
    postponed.

  - A common data file (like cdata.f90) to be shared between density,
    eos and entropy. We may call this cthermo.f90 (common thermodynamics).
    This may solve some problems with modularity of the code.  
    * Boris: is it really a good idea as we have now the put/getshared_variable 
    system? so why doing that just for thermo? AXEL: the shared_variable
    system is maybe too complicate for this stuff and a cthermo.f90 file can 
    be useful
    (?Wlad to work on this?)
    Status?

  - nomodules compiles with syscalls instead of nosyscalls.... what is
    syscalls and what is it doing in the code? Add it to the manual.
    Status?

  - Do the Athena's Double Mach Reflection
    Status?

  - Code a routine to convert vector fields between geometries,
    spherical/cartesian/cylindrical
    Status?

  - Write auxiliary variables to data/varname.dat. Maybe copy from index.pro?
    Status?

  - Is parallel field line tracing of any interest? If so we can discuss about
    a more efficient implementation and additional features like integrating
    quantities along field lines.
    (SC)
    Status?

  - Any attempts of improving visualization routines. Visualization during
    run time. GUIs by Miikka and Simon.
    Status?

  - Visualization, GUIs, python: Illa, Miikka, Simon:
    Simon: - tools: animate_interactive, pc2vtk
           - paraview
    Status?

- The idl directory (Michiel)
  Status?

- Students starting out with the pencil code, what do you need and is
  everything in the manual (Michiel)
  Status?

