$Id: agenda.txt,v 1.25 2009-08-28 13:32:07 dobler Exp $

Topics:

  - Pencil Code Lite - a minimalist cleaner version of 
    the code for new users
    -> may be a nice tool for teaching
    -> should be _very_ stripped-down
    -> will not be in sync with the main code
    -> potential danger: users may use the toy version, hack it up
       stupidly and then claim they did something with the Pencil Code
    -> `crayon code?' `toy pencil code'
    -> Wlad to hack together a crayon version

  - collect talks and post them on a web page

  - moving additional/experimental modules to subfolder
    -> we will try to group .f90 files in subdirectories (timestep/,
       physics/, ...)

  - remesh procedure: discuss Nils, Wolfgang, Boris, Axel
    -> Now checked in by Nils

  - Pencil Code paper (discuss work plan for the week)
    -> will contain fewer applications than planned so far (none?) 
    -> write something specifically on high-order schemes
    -> non-conservativeness <-> hybrid
    -> shocks

  - Clean up and re-order IDL directory
    -> started, but work in progress

  - The Pencil Code for teaching; auto-testing material and other
    discussions
    -> had tutorial presentation by Axel
    
  - Cleaning up the Makefile
    [Can we be more specific and categorize the cruft here? The
    machine-dependent part will eventually (with a long time constant) go
    away with the new configuration scheme]
    (Wolfgang?)
    -> made a bit of progress, but there is certainly more to do

  - What to do with the initial conditions? The code is 
    loaded with useless and obsolete initial conditions.  
    Should we put those in a special initcond_XXX extension 
    of each module?
    -> controversial discussionl ``result'': different people will handle
       this differently

  - Avoid wrong names such as lncc for cc and lnTT for TT?
    -> Fixed by Anders (irho is alias to ilnrho when appropriate, etc.)

  - Last year it was also suggested that we should have a more thorough
    auto-test, with different levels of testing. I guess we should discuss
    the strategies for that. (Boris/Wolfgang)
    - This is prepared (in auto-test/pencil-test), but in order to do
      different levels of tests periodically, we might want to use more
      machines for auto-testing (?)
    -> in place;
    -> Wlad will set up a nightly test with gfortran

  - Nested Pencil (Anders/Wlad)
    - discussed this
    -> is there a problem with the viscosity being discontinuous on the
       boundary between coarser and finer mesh
    -> the main remaining problem is bookkeeping for getting the
       communication right 

  - Polar coordinates - problems and directions. We have very few non-Cartesian
    users, and there is some lack of communication between us. Some are 
    using upwinding, some are using hyperviscosity. We lack a well-defined 
    test for the whole scheme, and only a handful of samples test the several 
    features implemented in polar coordinates. I suggest we have a session
    devoted for it. The other people working on Cartesian coordinates might
    find it interesting as well. Otherwise, the polar people can have a
    sub-meeting. (Wlad/Dhruba/Axel/Boris)
    -> didn't discuss this in detail
    -> Nils found a bug: flow around cylinder goes wrong when scaling the
       problem (forgot in which direction) such that it should be exactly
       the same as the original problem
 
  - Anelastic solver (Boris)
    -> Boris sort of just finished parallelizing the parallelized ADI
       solver (makeing heavy use of the tranpose_xyz functions we already
       use for 3d FFTs

  - Adding and improving the remesh facility to the main repository (Axel)
    To be discussed with Tobi.
    -> remesh/ is in trunk now. Wolfgang failed to move it together with
       history

  - Move the LOCK file to the data directory (or perhaps both), because the
    actual data are in the data tree and that may only be a link!
    OK with Wlad.
    -> Problem appears when two run directories share the same data dir.
    -> Wolfgang will fix this

  - What determines whether a subroutine goes into sub.f90 or into general.f90?
    (Anders)
    -> Uses only cparam (or no module at all): general.f90
    -> setup_mm_nn and a few other routines should probably move to
       sub.f90
    -> maybe, lroot can move to cparam, then error handling code doesn't
       pull in cdata
    -> some more re-shufflig needed
    -> there might be three levels:
       1. needs nothing
       2. needs only cparam
       3. needs only cparam, messages, mpicomm and cdata

  - Take differential operators out of Sub and into independent module.
    (Anders)
    -> Anders will come up with a more detailed proposal

  - Dependence file: Wolfgang to make it more automatic.
    -> bug 44

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Further topics for discussion (added after the planning meeting, so don't
expect those to really get discusion time assigned):

- Should we make better use of the publicly visible forums/mailing lists?

- Can we set up rules for how long a test may be failing?
  - ... and for who is in charge of fixing it
  - [encourage people to try `pc_debug' or run tests with g95-debug
    settings]

- FFT libraries:
  - fftpack.f90 needs extra care when compiling (but certainly not more
    than fftpack.f did)
  - fftw3 claims to be faster, but
    - we don't expect much of a difference because the transposition is
      the expensive part
    - setup is far from trivial (optimization for the given computer)
  - alternatives? [ideally F90, well-tested, not too slow]

- Try to analyze Pencil test timings (iirc, some tests [geodynamo?] show a
  sudden increase in run time)
  -> Write a bug?

- We should define some Pencil Code standards for how to indent and capitalize
  IDL code.

- Communication:
  - don't forget googletalk/Jabber
  - make more use of public mailing lists? do we need a pencil-users list?

  - Changing the names of gamma1 and gamma11? (Wlad)
      gamma1  -> gamma_m1  ( = γ-1)
      gamma11 -> gamma1    ( = 1/γ)
    -> Suggestion: rename in two steps:
       1. gamma1 -> gamma_m1, gamma11 -> inv_gamma
       then, after, say 6 months (o at the next meeting)
       2. inv_gamma -> gamma1
 
  - Wlad suggests to have a separate heatcond or heating module.
      
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Not discussed:

  - Particle collisions. (Anders) 

  - Conservativeness. Is it possible to make pencil conservative?
    I'm getting tired of people not understanding that Pencil's
    non-conservativeness is well compensated by its high-order
    nature. Some people just never considered that a conservative
    scheme is the only way to make their low-order codes not produce
    garbage.

  - Anders and Boris mentioned a problem with conservation of mass
    with log density. Was it solved? (Anders/Boris)

  - Other Poisson solvers - Multigrid solver, Iterative methods via inverse
    problems (Wolfgang/Wlad)

  - Full particle simulations. Stategies for non-ideal MHD.
    Immediate application: capturing electron drift modes (Wlad).

  - Discussion about the developers.txt file. Is there a simple way of
    editing the data base and of displaying the relevant information
    with a search facility? (Axel)
    Question for Wolfgang
    -> Please be more specific. Do you mean something like
         pc_phonelist -m dhruba # return just Dhruba's email
       ?

  - Should we change the Makefile.src default to the following? (Axel)
      EOS=noeos
      VISCOSITY=noviscosity
      could make VISCOSITY coupled to hydro
    -> can you be more specific?

  - Discussion about possible modifications of code style (Axel); see also
      svn diff -r5207:8107 manual.tex
